---
layout: post
title: On the altar of money
comments: True
published: True
---
### work in progress...
What is money? On it's meaning, source of value, nature and morality...


Money to me is ultimately an expression of my faith in my fellow humans.

Traditionally the bonds of kinship extend to close members of our family. 
Families, tribes, castes, guilds for instance are social constructs 
that strive to increases our spheres of concern beyond the immediate through 
economic or blood ties. Religeons and Nations can be thought of as most ambitious 
of these constructs that attempt to concoct a sense of unite over large spatial and 
temporal and spatial scale. Recently, supra-national entities like the UN or the EU
have also been attempted. All these directly aim at the cognitive faculties that have 
inspired human social aggregation at evolutionary time-scale- namely safety and procreation.

Money I posit - circumvents the need of these desirables - and directly addresses the 
underlying requirement of any social grouping --- that of trust among the participants, and thus 
makes possible the largest social construct of them all - the global economy!

There are three guys on an island -  Tom, Dick and Harry. Tom can fish, Dick 
can climb and fetch coconuts and Harry knows how to make and repair shelters. We 
can certainly come to a system where Harry can repairing all the shelters as and 
when the need arises, and Tom and Dick shall be willing to produce excess produce 
from of their crafts to each other and to harry to satisfy all their nutritional 
needs. However, what about times of excess needs or times of deficit production. 
Given a certain amount of production, how should it be divided among the 
three parties.

Of course, eventually we come to the idea of risk, i.e. how to account for future contingencies, 
as well as the issues of fraud or failure among current participants.

In a  moneyless society:
* How do you account for risk/ future uncertanity?
* How do you account for eventual reduction in productivity of all individuals?