---
layout: post
title: God made the private limited company!
comments: True
published: True
---
### Because sometimes its okay to stretch a metaphor...
On the similarities between an individual and a corporation.


### A Prologue
The first company ever created led to the colonisation of India. 
The second company caused the beheading of loius XVI and precipitated 
the french revolution.


### Ain't Tesla my baby?
Companies are in my mind most akin to children. The comparison wouldn't 
be too far off because in law we do recognise limited liability companies 
as full personages. However, more often than would be palatable; their behavior 
reflects juvenile exertions rather than the deliberate action of a mature, 
seasoned and rational adult. In fact, even in the best case scenario companies, 
like the humans that constitute them, will only confirm to bounded 
rationality.

Children need minders. So do the companies. Also, children need to grow up. 
So do the companies. This brings in the notion of fostering companies in their 
infancy, i.e. the start-up state through incubation involving financial and legal 
handholding. It also relates to the idea of the infant industry model and a protective, 
interventionist state. But just as a parent needs to eventually let go - the state needs to 
recede, to let the start-up/MSME/village co-op step out and prosper.

### On the problems of evil corporations: companies like individuals need a moral code. 
If Companies exist in a moral vaccuum, they shall regress to manifesting and pursuing the fulfilment of 
base instincts as is the wont of all beings. It seems the current problem of capitalist greed run amok 
is interwined with its evolution in the 19th century western Europe that was forsaking its religiosity. 
When the christian god dies (Nietzcshe, 1883), the christian moral code losses its basis. As a child of these 
times, the modern corporation has never found an even keel in the moral firmament. On a tangential note, 
we often see modern corporations trying to evolve a credo/ a company philosophy/ a guiding principle; 
all attempts at a mustering a moralistic policy instrument. 


### Nature loves dichotomies! (or do we only see binary?)
Following is a fundamental dichotomy(amongst others) in Nature:
 * the progressive vs conservative 
 (aka exploration vs exploitation/ the drive to explore vs the need to consolidate current gains)

They delineate a spectrum, on which any social system exists. The key to equilibrium and 
harmony in this paradigm is fostering the right mix of individuals/institutions with these 
opposing traits since its not possible to have just or the other. I proffer that at organisational 
scale, while the government represents the conservative, the joint, the committee based or some what 
consensus driven view--- the company represets the adventurous, free-wheeling, individualistic 
progressive spirit. 

### Concluding note
Lastly, a summary note: wealth exists in our minds. Companies are a construct of our 
collective imaginations as well. Companies are one storehouse of this wealth(both monetized 
and intellectual) among others. Companies are also one way of aggegating and expressing the 
"will" of the people. In this form they serve as a counterweight to the other major angency 
built out of public will and capital. viz. the government. We need to nurture companies, 
provide them with a moral compass and value them as a just votary in our polity and an 
actor in our economy. 